Munin consists of the main (central server) programs, and the node
program.  The node runs on each of the machines you want to collect
data from. The main programs does the collecting, draws the graphs,
and creates the HTML pages.

To install the main programs (you might want to install a node first,
that way there is data to collect):

	- edit Makefile.config
	- create the user "munin"
	- make install-main

        - In your HTMLDIR/munin you will now find a .htaccess file
          looking for passwords in CONFDIR/munin-htpasswd.  Install
          the users you need in munin-htpasswd with the htpasswd
	  command.  Check that authentication is required, if it's not 
	  please refer to build/resources/apache-passwd.conf.

	  If you prefer that munin be openly available make the
	  .htaccess file empty ( : >.htaccess ) - that way it will
	  not be overwritten later.

          If you already have a .htaccess file it will not be
          overwritten.

	- create a cron-entry to run "munin-cron" as the user "munin"
	  every 5 minutes.  You might find cron files for your system
	  under the build/dists subdirectory, or perhaps in the
          build/resources directory.

	- if you want to use the dynamic graphs: Configure the cgi
	  directory, you will find a apache config example in
	  build/resources.  NOTE: Dynamic graphs are not exactly
          perfect. Se also http://munin.projects.linpro.no/wiki/CgiHowto

To install the documentation:

	- edit Makefile.config
	- make install-doc install-man

To install a node:

	- edit Makefile.config
	- create the group "munin"
	- make install-node install-node-plugins (NOTE: This installs
	  all plugins in the distribution, no matter what you already
	  have, if you want to save some plugins you've installed yourself
	  or have customized please make a backup copy).
	- decide which plugins to use.  The quick auto-plug-and-play
          solution: 
            munin-node-configure --shell --families=contrib,auto | sh -x

	- start the node agent. You probably want an init-script for
          this and you might find a good one under build/dists

Notes about node plugins
------------------------

"make install-node-plugins" installs the plugins in LIBDIR (defined in
Makefile.config). Put the ones you want to use (or better yet, create
softlinks) in CONFDIR/plugins/ . An easy way to do this, is the
program "munin-node-configure", using the parameter "--shell". It will
then suggest commands to do this.

Some of the plugins require some configuration to get running.  Some
example configuration files (plugins.conf) is found under the
build/dists directory.

Many OSes and releases thereof have different ways of gathering data.
A lot of OSes still have none.  If you create plugins for an OS/system
which is not already in the package, please send us a copy of them, so
we can add them for others to use.  We'd also be happy if you sent us
any new plugins on systems already in the package.
